---
layout: post
title: SSH Tips
tags: [tip, unix]
---
#### I manage a lot of servers, login in quickly without having to look up passwords or remember which username it was should be simple, I'll show you how simple it can get!.
Below I will give you some tips of how to improve your SSH workflow.

## ssh-copy-id is great!
By using `ssh-copy-id` you connect to the server using **secure keys** instead of having to use a password.

The syntax of ssh-copy-id is the following:

	ssh-copy-id user@server.com

and then it will ask for the password.

it works by copying your public key from `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub` to the servers `~/.ssh/authorized_keys`.

And when you then type `ssh root@server.com` it will first try to connect via secure keys which compares your private key `~/.ssh/id_rsa` with the public key you copied with `ssh-copy-id` before falling back to using passwords.

#### Generate new key
You can generate your private and public key with the following command:

	ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 2048

## Simplify further
Now it's time to simplify the ssh command. We still need to specify the user and the host when we connect but by specifying this in the ssh config file we can do away with a lot of typing.

Open the file `~/.ssh/config` and put the following in it:

{% highlight bash %}
# Stop timing out connections
ServerAliveInterval 300
ServerAliveCountMax 20

# Specify default user
User root

Host myalias
	HostName server.com
	User root

Host myalias2
	HostName server2.com
	User root2
{% endhighlight %}

The first is to stop OSX Lion from closing down the connection. (If you don´t specify this, you get `Broken pipe` syndrome)

I hope this will help you become a better unix hacker :)